As we have already seen, there are many
different exciting applications
that are being enabled
by the Big Data era.
As part of my core research here at
the San Diego Supercomputer Center,
I work on building methodologies and
tools to make Big Data useful to dynamic
data driven scientific applications.
My colleagues and I work on many grand
challenge data science applications,
in all areas of science and engineering,
including genomics, geoinformatics,
metro science, energy management,
biomedicine, and personalized health.
What is common to all these applications
is their unique way of bringing
together new modes of data and
computing research.
Let me tell you the one I'm passionate
about, Wildfire Analytics,
which breaks up into two components,
prediction and response.
Why is this so important?
On May 2014, in San Diego County where
the instructors of this
specialization live and work,
there were 14 fires burning,
as many as nine at one time,
which burned a total of 26,000 acres,
11,000 hectares,
an area just less than the size
of the City of San Francisco.
Six people were injured and
one person died.
And these wildfires
resulted in a total cost of
over $60 million US in damage and
firefighting.
These wildfires can become so severe
that we actually call them firestorms.
Although we cannot
control such fire storms,
something we can do is to get ahead
of them by predicting their behavior.
This is why disaster management
of ongoing wildfires relies
heavily on understanding their
direction and rate of spread.
As these fires are a part of our lives,
we wanted to see if we can use Big Data to
monitor, predict and manage a firestorm.
Why can Big Data help?
As we will see in this video,
indeed, wildfire prevention and
response can benefit from many
streams in our data torrent.
Some streams are generated by
people through devices they carry.
A lot come from sensors and satellites,
things that measure environmental factors.
And some come from organizational data,
including area maps,
better service updates and field content
databases, which archive how much
registers vegetation and other types of
fuel are in the way of a potential fire.
What makes this a Big Data problem?
Because novel approaches and
responses can be taken if
we can integrate this many
diverse data streams.
Many such data sources have already
existed for quite some time.
But what is lacking in disaster
management today is a dynamic system
integration of real time sensor networks,
satellite imagery,
near real time data management tools,
wildfire simulation tools,
connectivity to emergency command centers,
and
all these before, during,
and after a firestorm.
As you will see,
the integration of diverse streams and
novel ways is really what's driving
our ability to see new things and
develop predictive analytics,
which may help improve our world.
What are these diverse sources?
One of the most important data sources
is sensor data streaming in from weather
stations and satellites,
such sensed data include temperature,
humidity, air pressure.
We can also include image
data streaming from
mountaintop cameras and
satellites in this category.
Another important data source
comes from institutions
such as
the San Diego Supercomputer Center,
which generate data related
to wildfire modeling.
These include past and current fire
perimeter maps put together by
the authorities and fuel maps that
tell us about the vegetation,
and other types of fuel in a fire's path.
These types of data sources are often
static or updated at a slow rate,
but they provide valuable data
that is well-curated and verified.
A huge part of data on fires is
actually generated by the public
on social media sites such as Twitter,
which support photo sharing resources.
These are the hardest data sources to
streamline during an existing fire, but
they can be very valuable once
integrated with other data sources.
Imagine synthesizing all the pictures
on Twitter about an ongoing fire or
checking the public sentiment
around the boundaries of a fire.
Once you have access to such
information at your fingertips,
there are many things you
can do with such data.
You can simply monitor it, or
maybe you can visualize it.
But it's not until you bring all these
different types of data sources together
and integrate them with real time analysis
and predictive modeling that you can
really make contributions in predicting
and responding to wildfire emergencies.
So now,
I will like you to take a moment and
imagine how Big Data might help
with firefighting in the future.
All these streams of data will come
together in 3D displays that can show
all the related information along
with weather and fire predictions,
just like the way tornadoes
are managed today.